---
title: Welcome to Shimincraft Wiki
date: 2025-09-19
description: First post on the Shimincraft Wiki, introducing the wiki and its purpose.
slug: welcome-to-shimincraft-wiki
authors: [Scot_Survivor]
tags: [first-post,development,intro,wiki,server-future]
image: /img/logo.png
hide_table_of_contents: false
---
# Hello Fellow Shimins!
Welcome to the **new** Shimincraft Wiki, and Blog! This is the first post of hopefully many more to come.
This post will look into the purpose of this wiki, and how you can help contribute to it. As well as bigger plans for the server in the future.

# Purpose of the Wiki
The purpose of this wiki is to give a central "Knowledge Base" for all things Shimincraft. From new-user information, to advanced guides on how to use certain features of the server.
Even information on the history of the server, and its development.
I hope to add a section on the wiki dedicated to specific builds on the server, and the stories behind them.
Individual "Noble Shimins" will also be highlighted, and their contributions to the server documented.

This wiki is a collaborative platform, and I encourage all Shimins to contribute to it. Whether it's by adding new information, correcting existing information, or simply providing feedback on how to improve the wiki.
You can find out more about contributing on the [Contributing](/docs/how-to-contribute) section, which will take you through the basics of adding new content to the wiki.
If you have any questions, feel free to reach out on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/vE3hm4dFxE) or in-game.

# Future Plans for the Server
## Events
To keep an active and engaged community, I plan to host regular events on the server. Using the resourcepack to its fullest potential, I hope to create fun and unique experiences for all Shimins.
These events will be announced on the blog as well as the Discord Server, and I encourage all Shimins to participate in them.
### Boss Fights
Over time I plan to add multiple *themed* bossfights, this will include, custom mobs, arenas, and **loot**.
For larger bosses, wraps will be available to the first few players to defeat them. These will be unique wraps, not available anywhere else on the server.

These boss fights will be designed to be beaten by groups and solo players. Some will be easier than others, but all will be fun and challenging.

Taking inspiration from RPG style games, these bosses will have unique mechanics and abilities, possibly even phases to them as well. The kind of loot expected will also vary from boss to boss.
But they will *all* be harder than the vanilla Minecraft bosses.

Of course if you want that ✨ Vanilla Experience ✨, you don't have to take part, these are purely optional, and all bosses will be in separate worlds.
### Seasonal Events
To keep things fresh, I plan to host seasonal events, while there is not enough time this year for a Halloween event, I plan to release a Christmas event in December.
This will include a special Christmas-themed boss fight, as well as other fun activities and rewards.

### Planned Future Features
- **Player Shops**: A more advanced player shop system, allowing for better trading and economy
  - Currently, there is no method of "shops" for a player, I need to investigate existing solutions for this and see what fits best with the server.
  - For now shops can be created through trading with Diamonds! Moderators are able to help you check if you feel your shop has been stolen from.
- **More Custom Mobs**: Adding more custom mobs to the server, both hostile and passive.
  - This will include more custom bosses, as well as custom mobs for the overworld, nether, and end.
  - These mobs will be designed to fit the theme of the server, and will provide new challenges and rewards for players.

There are many more ideas in my head, but these are the primary ones I want to achieve in the earlier days of the server.
If you have any suggestions or ideas, feel free to reach out on the [Discord](https://discord.gg/vE3hm4dFxE) or in-game to share your thoughts.